Android Interview Question


service
-> is a component that run on the backgound to perform a long- running task

1)backgound  service->a backgound service is a service that runs only when app is runging.
it is terminated when the app is terminated.

2) forgound service->
a forgound service a service that stays alive even when the app is terminated


3)Bound service->
a Bound service is a service that runs only when the componant it is bound to it still alive


------------------------------------------

what is class
class -> class is a top level block that used for grouping variable and methods for developing logic

object -> is an instane of class

5 type of classes in java 

inteface - > 
is a fully unimplemented class used for declaring a set of operations of an object.
it contains only public static final varibles and abstract methods.
it is created by keyword interface.
it is always created as a root class in object creation process.


abstract class ->
it is a partialy implemented class used for developing some of the operations of an object which are common for all nex level subclass.
so it contain the both abstract methods and concreate methods including veriable , block, and constructor.

concrete class:
it is fully implemented class used for implementing all operation fo an object.
it contains only concrete methods including valibles , block, constuctor


final class:
a concrete class which is declared as final is called final class.
it does not allows subclasses.
so it last class in object inheritance hieratchy



Singleton class pattern:
Singleton Pattern says that just"define a class that has only one instance and provides a global point of access to it".



---------------

OOPS:
it is a techniue , not technlogy .it is  a methology to develope object in systmatcal mannar.

4 main  piller

encapsulation:->
the process of creating a class by hiding internal data from the outside world.
and accessing it from only publicaly exposed methods is known as data encapsulation.

abstraction;->
* the process of defining a class by Hiding internal details and showing functionality is known as abstraction.
the process of defining a class by providing necessary details to call object operation by hiding or removing it implementation details .

inheritance->
the pressess of creating a class to resue exited class memebers using our class name or obejct.
* obtaining one object propery to another object.
it use for get one class propery to another class.
type of inheritance;->
1)single level
2)multi level
3)hierachical 
4)hybrid
5)Multiple interface inheritance


polymorphisum-;->
the process of defining a class with multle methods with same methods name with different implementation is called polymorphism.

Overloading -> Method overloading is performed within class.

override - >Method overriding occurs in two classes that have IS-A (inheritance) relationship.

----------
Components of Android application
Services 
Activities 
Broadcast receivers 
Content providers 


-----------
core building blocks of android
    Activity
    View
    Intent
    Service
    Content Provider
    Fragment etc.


------------


Some Major differences between List and ArrayList are as follows:

    One of the major differences is that List is an interface and ArrayList is a class of Java Collection framework.
    The List extends the collection framework, comparatively ArrayList extends AbstractList class and implements the List interface.
    The namespace for the List and ArrayList is System.Collection.Generic and System Collection, respectively.
    List stores elements in a sequence and are identified by the individual index number. Comparatively, ArrayList stores the elements in a dynamic array; it can grow when required.

-----

Android Intent Flags are used to signify the state or type of an Android Intent

-------

What is AAPT?
AAPT stands for Android Asset Packaging Tool. It is a build tool that gives the ability to developers to view, create, and update ZIP-compatible archives (zip, jar, and apk). It parses, indexes, and compiles the resources into a binary format that is optimized for the platform of Android.

----------


What is Android Debug Bridge(ADB)?
Android Debug Bridge is a command-line tool used to allow and control communication with an emulator instance. It gives the power for developers to execute remote shell commands to run applications on an emulator.

--------


What is AIDL?
AIDL(Android Interface Definition Language) is a tool that handles the interface requirements between a client and a service for interprocess communication(IPC) to communicate at the same level.

-------



What does ADT stand for?
ADT stands for Android Development Tools. The Android SDK contains several tools and utilities to help create, test and debug your projects.



What is the life cycle of Android activity?

    OnCreate(): It is called when activity is created. Using this, the views are created and data is collected from bundles.
    OnStart(): It is called if the activity is becoming visible to the user. It may be succeeded by onResume() if the activity comes to the foreground, or onStop() if it becomes hidden.
    OnResume(): It is called when the activity will start an interaction with the user.
    OnPause(): This is called when the activity is moving to the background but hasn’t been killed yet.
    OnStop(): This is called when an activity is no longer visible to the user.
    OnDestroy(): This is called when the activity is finished or destroyed.
    OnRestart(): This is called after the activity has been stopped, prior to it being started again.

-------------

What is AndroidManifest.xml file
The AndroidManifest.xml file contains information regarding the application that the Android system must know before the codes can be executed. 


---
Android 11.0 (API 30): Android developers are continuously working to provide more advanced applications as per the user requirements. Important features included are:

    Native screen recording.
    Auto revokes app permission.
    Mute notifications during the video.
    Increase in touch sensitivity.
    Notification history





android version - 
singleton class





santa group
20-02-23 - 2 pm - technical round
---
uber->20-02-23 - sanchari roy
---
panjab company 
next week
21-02-23

----


23-02-23 may be call

26-nitor pune 77700
-
final class, final veribles.
extension class in kotlin.
flag
google map


--
--
--
--



Current Company - the appwelt pvt ltd
Total experience-4.1 years
Current ctc/per month- 25,000/-
Expectation ctc/per month- 45.000/-
Current Location – Nagpur
Preferred location- - Nagpur , Pune , bangalore
Primary skill- java , kotlin . android studio
Secondary skill- java , kotlin . android studio
Notice period - 15 days

Available at work from day 1st of onboarding Hurix (Y/N)-Yes
Can join Within 15 Days (Y/N)-Yes
DOJ in next company - 6 Marcha
Exp. with MVVM Architecture - 1 years
Exp. with MVC Architecture - 1 years



